Right now I'm on a Web site for the WordPress plugin Bebe press.
This plug in is one of the most advanced plugins out there.
It allows you to turn your WordPress site into a forum.
One of the most prominent features of Bebe press is that developers can write plugins to extend this
plugin.
Here's the thing though Bebe press doesn't implement its own plugin API BD press takes advantage of
WordPress as plugin API and just as its own action filter hooks.
Writing a plugin for Bebe press is the same as writing a plugin for wordpress.
As we discussed previously Bebe press just uses the do action and apply filters functions for creating
its own custom hooks.
Lets say that we publish our plugin and it has now become insanely popular it's become so popular that
we're getting requests for new features daily.
Unfortunately some of these requests deviate from the main purpose of the plugin.
We don't want to deviate from the main purpose nor do we want to limit the functionality of the plugin.
So how do we solve this.
We can use the plugin API to allow developers to further extend our plugin with more plugins in the
resource section of this lecture.
I provide a link to the plugin API.
WordPress provides a handful of functions to use the plugin API.
Actually we've already been using them from the very beginning.
The ad action and ad filter are functions we've used plenty of times you already know how to use these
functions.
But let's take a look at how you would go about using them in a different way.
I want to let developers extend the rating function so let's open up the rating function file now right
before it that Jason is output it let's call a function called do action this function takes in the
name of the action we want to trigger.
This can be a custom defined one or one available in WordPress.
Let's enter a custom one and name it.
Recipe rated.
The second parameter is optional.
It's a list of parameters that will be sent to any function that hooks into this hook.
I'm going to pass in an array with the Post I.D. rating and the IP of the user.
That's it.
We don't have to do anything else now.
Any plugin developer can use the add action function and hook into this action hook.
Even if this hook isn't used by functions WordPress will not throw errors and will run as usual.
Just be sure to let other developers know that this action is available.
Let's test this out by developing another plugin.
This plugin will email us whenever a user writes a recipe.
We're going to take advantage of the hook we created earlier to do this inside the plugin folder create
a file called email dash recipe dot BHP this will contain our new plugin.
I'm not going to bother creating a folder or try and organize this plugin because this plugin will be
very simple.
It'll only be a few lines of code.
I'm going to set the name of this plugin to recipe email rating and set the description to this plugin
extends the recipe plugin
let's call the add action function and use the custom recipe rated hook previously.
We've always passed in a string name of the function we wanted to call.
This time we'll pass an anonymous function anonymous functions are special to HP and not WordPress.
They're only available in HP five point three or above.
So I can't recommend that you use anonymous functions in production plugins.
If you plan on supporting versions earlier then five point three.
Our anonymous function will accept in an array with the details about the rating we want our new plug
into email the author of this recipe about the new rating.
Let's get the info about the post by using the get post function you pass this function.
The ideas of the post the function will return data about the post.
I'm going to create a variable named user email.
We can now grab the author email by using the.
Get the author meta function
this function has two parameters.
The first is the field we want to grab.
This would be the user email.
The second parameter is the idea of the author our post data will contain a field named Post author
which contains the author Aidid.
Now we can compose the subject and message.
The subject will be your recipe has received a new rating.
The message will be your recipe followed by the title of The Post has received a new rating of.
And then we pass in the rating.
The last thing we need to do is send this as an email.
WordPress provides a function called WP mail.
Why use this function instead of peace mail function.
Well this function is plausible meaning other plugins can take advantage of modifying the email and
its info.
The parameters are the same as p ps mail function.
The first parameter is the recipient's email.
The second and third parameters are the subject and message respectively our plugin is now ready.
You should keep in mind that this won't work on most local servers.
Sending emails require S.M. T.P. so you will need to test this on a live site.